# HCMFF-Net
Survival prediction is an important basis for clinical diagnosis of lung cancer patients, which can provide early prognostic information of patients and help clinicians to develop accurate treatment plans. However, the current survival prediction models are defective in reducing the interference of non-relevant background features. Moreover, due to the diversity and multi-dimension of medical data, it is very challenging to interact and fuse multi-modal data. 
Based on the above problems, this paper proposes a survival prediction network for lung cancer patients based on hypergraph convolution and multimodal feature fusion (HCMFF-Net). HCMFF-Net is mainly composed of four sub-blocks which are  local-global hybrid feature encoder (LG-Encoder), hierarchical cross-attention fusion block (HAFB), deep dense connectivity block (DDB), and multimodal hybrid interaction block (MHIB). LG-Encoder extracts features related to the tumour region through a hybrid structure of convolutional neural network(CNN) and Transformer, which reduces interference from non-relevant background information and enhances the capture of spatial information of the tumour. HAFB performs a multi-layer feature interaction for capturing effective features of CT and PET in order to improve prediction capability of HCMFF-Net. DDB adopts a cascade structure to extract segmented features from the decoder output to make full use of global tumour information and reduce the interference of non-relevant background information. MHIB builds a flexible and interpretable graph structure to achieve intra-modal and inter-modal interactions between clinical indicators, CT and PET features extracted by LG-Encoder to provide richer feature information for survival prediction.
We collaborated with the First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical University to process 586 patients' data including CT, PET and clinical indicators. Experiments conducted on this clinical dataset show that the HCMFF-Net achieves a C-index of 0.752 $\pm$ 0.041 on the test set, which outperforms traditional radiomics-based survival prediction models and existing deep survival models.
Extensive experiments have shown that the proposed method is superior to state-of-the-art methods. The proposed method can help clinicians to make early decisions and be used for personalised patient treatment.
